# Debugging C Program using Buildroot Uclibc

1. To debug programs using the new toolchain, we will need a C program (you can start the test with a very simple program using puts only).
Navigate to the directory where the C program (to be debugged is present).
2. Run the  command
```path-to-build-root/output/host/usr/bin/x86_64-linux-gcc -Ipath-to-build-root/output/host/usr/x86_64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/sysroot/usr/include -g filename.c -Lpath-to-build-root/output/host/usr/x86_64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/sysroot/usr/lib/ **-static** -lc **-o** new.out```
    
    * For Example, if buildroot is installed in buildroot folder under my home directory -> /home/nasir/buildroot, then I will use the command:
    ```/home/nasir/buildroot/output/host/usr/bin/x86_64-linux-gcc -I/home/nasir/buildroot/output/host/usr/x86_64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/sysroot/usr/include -g test.c -L/home/nasir/buildroot/output/host/usr/x86_64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/sysroot/usr/lib/ -static -lc -o new.out```
3. Explanation of the above command:
    * __-I__: Specificies the path for the include files.
    * __-L__: Specificies the path for the Library files.
    * __-l__: Precedes name of the specific library. Please note that if we have libc.a, then we use -lc (lib is removed from the name)
    * __-static__: Notice the -static before -lc. Due to some reasons, only the static version of the libC is working fine that is why we are using the static libC instead of the shared one.
    * __-g__: Notice the -g before the filename.c. -g is used to instruct compiler to add debugging symbols to the output file. Without this, you wont be able to debug as the debug symbols wont be added.
    * __-o__: Specifying the name of the output file.

4. Successful execution of hte command at Step 2 give you a .out file, which you can easily debug it using gdb. To debug, run the command:
```gdb a.out```

5. If you want to enabled logging to file, run the following command to enable and the second command to specify the file (In the gdb prompt)
```set logging on```
```set logging file filename```
    * For more logging options, please visit the [GDB Page for Logging](https://sourceware.org/gdb/onlinedocs/gdb/Logging-Output.html).

6. If you enable logging to a file, all the steps you perform in the gdb will be outputted to file. You can see a sample file (which debugs the system function puts) [here](https://github.com/nasirky/Hiwi/blob/master/Resources/puts.log).
you can add a break point using the command: ```break lineNumber```

7. You can then run the program using the command ```run```
    * In case you have added a breakpoint, You can then use the commands ```next``` or ```step``` to continue debugging.
    * For more information regarding gdb commands, please check out this [Cheatsheet](http://www.yolinux.com/TUTORIALS/GDB-Commands.html) or visit the [Official GDB Guide](https://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb/)
